

PHP-PDF417 


Simple PHP class for decoding PDF417 Datastreams from Web Browser 2D
Barcode Scanners


Table of Contents 

-   Copyright and Licensing
-   Description
-   Using the PDF417 PHP Class
-   Using the Example Program
-   Issues / Problems / Help


Copyright and Licensing

Copyright(c) Jeff V. Merkey 1997-2023. All rights reserved. pdf417
decoding PHP class for 2D barcode scanners

Licensed under the Lesser GNU Public License (LGPL) v2.1.

Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation. No representations are made about the
suitability of this software for any purpose. It is provided “as is”
without express or implied warranty.


Description

This is a Simple, down and dirty, easy to use PHP class for parsing
pdf417 data returned by 2D barcode scanners when scanning driver’s
license and ID card PDF417 data. This class returns the scanned and
parsed data as an indexed PHP array or a JSON encoded object.

It’s important to disable the shortcut keys Ctrl-J and Ctrl-D if using
the 2D scanner in Chrome or the scanning process will cause the browser
to jump into either the Downloads screen (Ctrl-J) or the bookmark
dropdown dialog (Ctrl-D) after scanning a driver’s license or ID card.
This occurs because the PDF417 datastream will include these keystroke
sequences as part of it’s normal operation since Ctrl-J and Ctrl-D are
valid data sequences for encoding PDF417 data and often appear in PDF417
datastreams.

To disable these shortcuts on Chrome, Download the chrome extension from
the online Chrome Store called “disable keyboard shortcuts” then after
it installs, type “chrome://extensions/shortcuts” in the url bar and hit
enter.

Enter Ctrl-J and Ctrl-D into the fields in the extension to disable
these shortcuts and your 2D bar code scanner should work properly.
Firefox maps Ctrl-J to the dropdown url dialog and unlike chrome, there
is no way to easily disable shortcut keys which may be in a PDF417 data
stream with the Firefox browser. It is recommended to only use this
PDF417 decoder on Chrome or Windows based web browsers which support
disabling these shortcut keystrokes.

This behavior occurs because a bar code scanner basically works like a
keyboard in how it interfaces to a web browser.


Using the PDF417 PHP Class

Include the pdf417-class.php in your PHP program to use the PDF417
decoder then create a class object and then you can parse a PDF417
datastream returned from a 2D barcode scanner. Position the cursor over
the web browser field your PHP program will use to process the
datastream then scan the driver’s license or id card with the 2D
scanner. This code only works with 2D or 3D scanners and does not work
with a 1D barcode reader as PDF417 is only supported by 2D and 3D
barcode scanners.

    include "pdf417-class.php";

    // create new pdf417 class object
    $pdfh = new pdf417;

    // parse the pdf417 datastream 
    $pdf417data = $pdfh->pdf417_parse($scandata); 

    // check if a pdf417 datastream was detected and print it
    if ($pdf417data)
       $pdfh->pdf417_printf($pdf417data);
    else {
       echo 'Not a pdf417 datastream';
       exit;
    }

You can also convert the PDF417 array returned by the pdf417_parse()
method into a json object.

    // covert pdf417 datastream to json object
    $jsondata = $pdfh->pdf417_json_encode($pdf417data);

    // covert pdf417 json object to php array
    if ($jsondata)
       $jsonarray = $pdfh->pdf417_json_decode($jsondata);



USING THE EXAMPLE PROGRAM


You can invoke the example program from the command line with php
command line utility.

    # 
    # php example.php
    #

The program should parse the example pdf417 datastream and print out the
following:

    IDNUMBER : C1234567
    FULLNAME : SMITH, JOHN ROBERT
    FIRSTNAME : JOHN
    MIDDLE : ROBERT
    LASTNAME : SMITH
    SEX : MALE
    HEIGHT : 601
    WEIGHTLBS : 240
    ADDRESS : 123 WEED ROAD
    CITY : PORTLAND
    STATE : OR
    ZIP : 97206
    BIRTHDATE : 07/13/1960
    EXPIREDATE : 12/25/2050
    ISSUEDATE : 07/13/2022
    --- JSON ENCODE ---
    {"idnumber":"C1234567","fullname":"SMITH, JOHN ROBERT","firstname":"JOHN","middle":"ROBERT","lastname":"SMITH","sex":"MALE","height":"601","weightlbs":"240","address":"123 WEED ROAD","city":"PORTLAND","state":"OR","zip":"97206","birthdate":"07\/13\/1960","expiredate":"12\/25\/2050","issuedate":"07\/13\/2022"}
    --- JSON DECODE ---
    stdClass Object
    (
        [idnumber] => C1234567
        [fullname] => SMITH, JOHN ROBERT
        [firstname] => JOHN
        [middle] => ROBERT
        [lastname] => SMITH
        [sex] => MALE
        [height] => 601
        [weightlbs] => 240
        [address] => 123 WEED ROAD
        [city] => PORTLAND
        [state] => OR
        [zip] => 97206
        [birthdate] => 07/13/1960
        [expiredate] => 12/25/2050
        [issuedate] => 07/13/2022
    )


Issues / problems / help

If you have any issues, please log them at
https://github.com/jeffmerkey/php-pdf417/issues

If you have any suggestions for improvements then pull requests are
welcomed, or raise an issue.
